@w{}
@sp 5
@noindent
@emph{Richard Stallman is the prophet of the free software movement.
He understood the dangers of software patents years ago. Now that
this has become a crucial issue in the world, buy this book and read
what he said.}@* ---@strong{Tim Berners-Lee,} inventor of the World
Wide Web
@sp 2
@noindent
@emph{Richard Stallman is the philosopher king of software. He
single-handedly ignited what has become a world-wide movement to
create software that is Free, with a capital F. He has toiled for
years at a project that many once considered a fool's errand, and now
that is widely seen as ``inevitable.''}@* ---@strong{Simon@tie{}L.@:
Garfinkel,} computer science author and columnist
@sp 2
@noindent
@emph{By his hugely successful efforts to establish the idea of ``Free
Software,'' Stallman has made a massive contribution to the human
condition. His contribution combines elements that have technical,
social, political, and economic consequences.}@* ---@strong{Gerald Jay
Sussman,} Matsushita Professor of Electrical Engineering, MIT
@sp 2
@noindent
@emph{RMS is the leading philosopher of software. You may dislike
some of his attitudes, but you cannot avoid his ideas. This slim
volume will make those ideas readily accessible to those who are
confused by the buzzwords of rampant commercialism. This book needs
to be widely circulated and widely read.}@* ---@strong{Peter Salus,}
computer science writer, book reviewer, and UNIX historian
@sp 2
@noindent
@emph{Richard is the leading force of the free software movement.
This book is very important to spread the key concepts of free
software world-wide, so everyone can understand it. Free software
gives people freedom to use their creativity.}@* ---@strong{Masayuki
Ida,} professor, Graduate School of International Management, Aoyama
Gakuin University

@w{}
@page
