\input texinfo @c -*-texinfo-*-
@c %**start of header
@setfilename rms-essays-v2.info
@settitle Free Software, Free Society, 2nd ed.
@smallerbook
@raggedbottom
@defindex rg
@c %**end of header

@tex
@fonttextsize 10                 @c 10pt type for body
\global\parskip = 0pt            % no space between paragraphs
\gdef\putwordShortTOC{Contents}  % no long contents
\global\let\urlcolor=\rgbBlack   % don't print links in grayscale
\global\let\linkcolor=\rgbBlack
\global\hbadness=6666 % don't worry about not-too-underfull boxes
\global\envskipamount = 6pt plus8pt minus8pt
\global\lispnarrowing = 0.3in
@end tex

@set txiindexlquoteignore

@c

@c to offset text images of translations in words-to-avoid
@macro lowerbox{amt, stuff}
@lower \amt\ @hbox{\stuff\}
@end macro

@macro copyingnotice
@vskip 0pt plus1filll
@def@thisfootno{}
@dofootnote{Verbatim copying and distribution of this entire article is
permitted in any medium,@* provided this notice is preserved.}
@end macro

@macro lessigbio
@vskip 0pt plus1filll
@let@textindent=@gobble
@def@hang{@kern-@defaultparindent}@hangindent=0pt@relax
@def@thisfootno{}
@dofootnote{@kern-10pt
Lawrence Lessig is a Professor of Law at Harvard Law
School, the director of the@* Edmond J.@tie{}Safra Foundation Center
for Ethics, and the founder of Stanford Law@* School's Center for
Internet and Society. For much of his career, he focused his@* work on
law and technology, especially as it affects copyright. He is the
author of numerous books and has served as a board member of many
organizations,@* including the Free Software Foundation.} 
@end macro

@macro righttoreadauthorsnote
@vskip 0pt plus1filll
@let@textindent=@gobble
@def@hang{@kern-@defaultparindent}@hangindent=0pt@relax
@def@thisfootno{}
@dofootnote{@kern-10pt
@math{^1}This note has been updated several times since the first publication of the story.} 
@end macro

@macro fsfstwocite
@cite{Free Software, Free Society: Selected Essays of Richard
M. Stallman,} 2nd@tie{}ed.@: (Boston: GNU Press, 2010).
@end macro

@macro pageref{nodename}
p.@tie{}@refx{\nodename\-pg}{}
@end macro

@macro rmorbold{stuff}
@r{\stuff\}
@end macro

@macro forceindent
@leavevmode @kern@defaultparindent
@end macro

@macro firstcopyingnotice{stuff}
@def@thisfootno{@ignorespaces}
@let@textindent=@gobble
@dofootnote{@ifnum @footnoteno=0 @kern-10pt @fi
@def@hang{@kern-@defaultparindent}@hangindent=0pt@relax
@raggedright @hyphenpenalty=10000
\stuff\
@end raggedright
@par
@medskip
@noindent Verbatim copying and distribution of this entire chapter are permitted worldwide, without royalty, in any medium, provided this notice is preserved.}
@end macro

@macro secondcopyingnotice{stuff}
@def@thisfootno{@ignorespaces}
@let@textindent=@gobble
@dofootnote{@ifnum @footnoteno=0 @kern-10pt @fi
@def@hang{@kern-@defaultparindent}@hangindent=0pt@relax
@raggedright @hyphenpenalty=10000
\stuff\
@end raggedright
@par
@medskip
@noindent This chapter is licensed under the Creative Commons Attribution-NoDerivs@tie{}3.0 United States License. To view a copy of this license, visit
@url{http://creativecommons.@/org/@/licenses/@/by-nd/@/3.0/us/} or send a letter to Creative Commons, 171@tie{}Second Street, Suite@tie{}300, San Francisco, California@tie{}94105, USA.}
@end macro

@ifnottex
@alias unnumberedfootnote = footnote
@end ifnottex

@setchapternewpage odd

@copying
@raggedright
This is the second edition of @cite{Free Software, Free Society: Selected Essays of Richard M. Stallman.}@*
@end raggedright
Free Software Foundation@*
51 Franklin Street, Fifth Floor@*
Boston, MA 02110-1335
@sp 1
Copyright @copyright{} 2002, 2010 Free Software Foundation, Inc.
@quotation
Verbatim copying and distribution of this entire book are permitted
worldwide, without royalty, in any medium, provided this notice is
preserved. Permission is granted to copy and distribute translations
of this book from the original English into another language provided
the translation has been approved by the Free Software Foundation and
the copyright notice and this permission notice are preserved on all
copies.
@end quotation
ISBN 978-0-9831592-0-9
@sp 2
Cover design by Rob Myers.@*
Cover photograph by Peter Hinely.
@end copying
@include praise.texi
@w{ }
@page
@titlepage
@title Free Software, Free Society
@subtitle Selected Essays of Richard M. Stallman
@subtitle Second Edition
@author Richard M. Stallman
@c 
@page
@vskip 0pt plus 1 filll
@insertcopying

@end titlepage

@pageno = -3
@shortcontents

@c so the table of contents is printed at the start

@documentdescription
This is the second edition of Richard Stallman's collection of essays.
@end documentdescription
@ifnottex
@node Top
@top FSFSv2
This is the second edition of Richard Stallman's collection of essays.
@insertcopying
@end ifnottex

@node Top, Foreword, (dir), (dir)
@menu
* Foreword::
* Preface::
* Part One::
* Definition::
* GNU Project::
* Initial Announcement::
* Manifesto::
* Why Free:
* Should Be Free::
* Schools::
* University::
* Free Doc::
* Selling::
* Song::
* Part Two::
* Whats Name::
* Categories::
* OS Misses Point::
* Not IPR::
* Words to Avoid::
* Part Three::
* Right to Read::
* Mis Cop::
* Push Cop Aside::
* Freedom or Copyright::
* Copyleft::
* Pragmatic::
* Part Four::
* Trivial Patent::
* SPLP::
* DSP::
* New Monopoly::
* Part Five::
* Licenses Intro::
* GPL::
* Why V3::
* LGPL::
* FDL::
* Part Six::
* Can You Trust::
* Server::
* Java Trap::
* JavaScript Trap:
* X::
* No Word Attachments::
* Root::
* McVoy::
* Part Seven::
* Computing Progress::
* Compromise::
* Social Inertia::
* Freedom or Power::
* Appendix A::
* Appendix B::
@end menu

@c Don't put too much white space between lines/paragraphs.
@c software_note.texi
@c introduction.texi

@global@pageno = @lastnegativepageno
@include foreword.texi
@include preface-v2.texi
@page
@headings off
@w{ }
@page
@headings double
@global@pageno = 1

@c PART ONE:
@c The GNU Project and Free Software
@include part-one.texi
@include free-sw.texi
@include thegnuproject.texi
@include initial-announcement.texi
@include manifesto.texi
@include why-free.texi
@include shouldbefree.texi
@include schools.texi
@include university.texi
@include free-doc.texi
@include selling.texi
@include song.texi

@c PART TWO:
@c What's in a Name?
@include part-two.texi
@include why-gnu-linux.texi
@include categories.texi
@include open-source-misses-the-point.texi
@include not-ipr.texi
@include words-to-avoid.texi

@c PART THREE:
@c Copyright, Copyleft
@include part-three.texi
@include right-to-read.texi
@include misinterpreting-copyright.texi
@include push-copyright-aside.texi
@include freedom-or-copyright.texi
@include copyleft.texi
@include pragmatic.texi

@c PART FOUR:
@c Patents
@include part-four.texi
@include trivial-patent.texi
@include software-literary-patents.texi
@include dsp.texi
@include microsoft-new-monopoly.texi

@c PART FIVE:
@c The Licenses
@include part-five.texi
@include licenses-introduction.texi
@include gpl.texi
@include rms-why-gplv3.texi
@include lgpl.texi
@include fdl.texi

@c PART SIX:
@c Traps and Challenges
@include part-six.texi
@include can-you-trust.texi
@include server.texi
@include java-trap.texi
@include javascript-trap.texi
@include x.texi
@include root-of-problem.texi
@include no-word-attachments.texi
@include mcvoy.texi

@c PART SEVEN:
@c An Assessment and a Look Ahead
@include part-seven.texi
@include computing-progress.texi
@include compromise.texi
@include social-inertia.texi
@include freedom-or-power.texi

@tex
\immediate\write\tocfile{@@sp 1}
\immediate\write\tocfile{@@let@@rmorbold=@@b}
@end tex

@include appendix-a.texi
@include appendix-b.texi
@node Index
@unnumbered @rmorbold{Index}

@printindex merge

@bye
