@node Soft Sell, New Monopoly, SPLP, Top
@unnumbered Soft Sell

On July 6, 2005, the free software community and programmers everywhere
awaited a showdown in the European Parliament over software
patents. The outcome was far from predictable.

If we, the free software proponents, had lost, it would have been a
final defeat in Europe. The relevant part of the European commission
works hand in glove with the 
@cindex Business Software Alliance (BSA)
Business Software Alliance (BSA), and a
BSA lawyer actually wrote much of the text of the draft directive the
commission proposed. (We know this because they were so foolish as to
publish it as a Word file, which contained information about who wrote
what.)

Most of the national governments voted in favor of software patents at
the council of ministers---some in disregard of the explicit
instructions of their own parliaments. Some governments ceded to
threats from megacorporations. Danish newspapers reported in 2004 that
Microsoft had threatened to move a recently acquired company out of
Denmark if the government did not put its hand up for patents. Earlier
this year, after we had thanked the Polish government for rejecting
patents, it bowed to four European megacorps that threatened to move
out of the country a laboratory in which they spent perhaps $15m a year.

Since EU directives in these areas require agreement of both the
council of ministers and the European Parliament, our chances of
subsequently reversing a bad directive once adopted would have been
negligible. Defeat on July 6 would have been a disaster for software
developers and software users in the EU.

On the other hand, if the parliament had voted for amendments, the
result would not have been final. The European Parliament is given
so little power in the EU that it can never make a decision on its
own. Instead, there would have been further steps involving the
Parliament and the council. If the Parliament had stood firm, the
outcome might have been a good directive, ruling software patents out,
or no directive at all. That would not have been a final victory but
it would have let us aim for one.

Lobbying and protests continued in Strasbourg until the last day, but
on July 5 things took a strange turn. The propatent forces decided to
kill their own directive and began forming a coalition to push for its
outright rejection. On July 6, nearly the whole parliament voted for
such an outcome. The amendments were never considered, so we do not
know who would have won the showdown that did not happen.

So, did consumers and programmers win anything? Yes---time, but not
much of it.

The directive on ``computer-implemented inventions'' is dead but
software patents in Europe are not. We have not defeated the
propatent forces, only driven them off. They decided to avoid a
showdown at that time and place, but that does not mean they have
given up. We do not know when or how they will be back, but we must
not assume they will use the same methods or that we have years to
prepare.

This battle has implications far beyond the software
field. Our years-long fight has shown how undemocratic the EU is. It
is a system in which bureaucrats can make decisions that, practically
speaking, the public can never reverse.

The European Commission is given to serving business interests and
worse; a few years ago its entire leadership was forced to resign for
corruption. Bullying a whole national government appears to
be easy, but there is usually no need to go that far: it suffices to
convince one minister, or the minister's representative, to vote as
desired. The Hungarian representative voted for software patents even
as his prime minister said Hungary was against them; the German
representative voted in their favor even after the German parliament
had unanimously voted them down; the Dutch government pushed software
patents through the council of ministers after its parliament had
ordered it to reject them.

Europeans are fortunate that French and Dutch voters conclusively
rejected the proposed 
@cindex Constitution, EU
EU Constitution. The document explicitly
prioritized the interests of business over those of the public. It
slightly increased the power of the parliament while greatly
increasing that of the council of ministers: in other words, it would
have made the union less democratic. The rejection provides an
opportunity to consider something better. I have a proposal.

The unelected European Commission and the national governments that
cannot stand up to business pressure should have no role in forming EU
directives. Instead, every directive should start in the European
Parliament. If approved there, it should go for ratification by an
``upper house'' representing the people of Europe by means of
referendums. These might be arranged in many ways; one would be for
each directive to require the approval of a majority of the electorate
in countries whose combined populations add up to two thirds of the
EU@. Referendums would discourage the EU from adopting directives
over things that could well be left to individual countries to decide.

Europe may or may not use the opportunity of the present impasse to
adopt a more democratic constitution, but software users in Europe
must not fail to make use of the breathing space they have
gained. This is not the time to relax and celebrate. It is the time to
strengthen the anti-software-patent movement in Europe to meet the
next assault.

@subheading 2009 Note

The proposed EU Constitution was redesigned in another form, which
enabled the ruling powers of France and the Netherlands to sign it
without a referendum. The Irish rejected it once, and were made to
vote again until they said yes. This pseudoconstitution does not
make the EU democratic.

In regard to software patents, the European Patent Office simply issues
them in contempt of the treaty that established it, and some European countries
have foolishly treated them as valid.

@copyingnotice
